DATA SCIENCE FOUNDATIONS II
Predict Credit Card Fraud
Credit card fraud is one of the leading causes of identify theft around the world. In 2018 alone, over $24 billion were stolen through fraudulent credit card transactions. Financial institutions employ a wide variety of different techniques to prevent fraud, one of the most common being Logistic Regression.

In this project, you are a Data Scientist working for a credit card company. You have access to a dataset (based on a synthetic financial dataset), that represents a typical set of credit card transactions. transactions.csv is the original dataset containing 200k transactions. For starters, we’re going to be working with a small portion of this dataset, transactions_modified.csv, which contains one thousand transactions. Your task is to use Logistic Regression and create a predictive model to determine if a transaction is fraudulent or not.

Note that a solution.py file is loaded for you in the workspace, which contains solution code for this project. We highly recommend that you complete the project on your own without checking the solution, but feel free to take a look if you get stuck or want to check your answers when you’re done!


Q1  The file transactions_modified.csv contains data on 1000 simulated credit card transactions. Let’s begin by loading the data into a pandas DataFrame named transactions. Take a peek at the dataset using .head() and you can use .info() to examine how many rows are there and what datatypes the are. How many transactions are fraudulent? Print your answer.

CLEAN THE DATA

Q2  
Looking at the dataset, combined with our knowledge of credit card transactions in general, we can see that there are a few interesting columns to look at. We know that the amount of a given transaction is going to be important. Calculate summary statistics for this column. What does the distribution look like?

Q3  We have a lot of information about the type of transaction we are looking at. Let’s create a new column called isPayment that assigns a 1 when type is “PAYMENT” or “DEBIT”, and a 0 otherwise.